hi I'm Laurie Brannon senior editor for
CNET and this is the sony alpha SLT 855
V with its SLT series of cameras Sony
spans a gap between mirrorless
interchangeable-lens cameras and the
traditional DSLRs unlike a DSLR but like
some ILCs the SLT uses an electronic
viewfinder that's because the amount of
light reflected up to the phase
detection sensor isn't quite enough to
sufficiently illuminate a DSLR like
optical viewfinder bottom line the
shooting experience of the SLT a 55 V is
kind of a hodgepodge as well and because
the mirror doesn't perform the single
most important function it serves in a
DSLR enabling an optical viewfinder we
categorize the SLT s
as interchangeable lens cameras rather
than DSLRs the way Sony marketing does
I've mixed thoughts about the a 55 V's
photo quality but many objective
standards it fares pretty well for its
price class in JPEGs up through ISO 1600
it does a decent job balancing noise in
detail at ISO 3200 photos look
acceptable unless you've got a whole lot
of fine detail or edges where softness
will be too obvious I find you can get
sharper results with more attractive
grain by processing the raw files but
the trade-off is more clipping in the
shadows there doesn't seem to be a lot
of dynamic range to play with
furthermore it delivers reasonable color
accuracy but none of my photos wowed me
and I found about 500 most had a very
point-and-shoot quality to them not the
over sharpened type of look but the
details never really resolved appearance
and that's even with expensive lenses
for point shoot up graders who want
better video the 855 V gets a qualified
recommendation the quality is pretty
solid and it can autofocus well enough
for casual use albeit loudly you really
want to use a hotshoe microphone with
this and the interchangeable lens system
means you'll be able to put on a long
zoom lens for shooting your kids sports
or school plays using the image
stabilization really cuts into the
recording time on this though
and creative shooters who are looking
for a cheap entry into DSLR video really
should look elsewhere from that
spective the video is softer than I'd
like with some surprising Mauryan spots
and there are practically no manual
controls plus unhappy ABC HD camcorders
don't support any progressive 1080 modes
there's an aperture priority movie
capture mode but it only works with
manual focus and it locks the aperture
wide open as for Speed the a 55 V
performs reasonably well for burst
shooting it not only leads its class but
it's pretty fast for any class I give
the camera high marks for general
photographic usability the EVF is
probably the best I've ever used the
camera functions very much like Sony
standard DSLRs the relatively sparse
mode dial contains the usual program
modes auto flash scene cetera as well as
the new auto plus a late to the party
automatic scene selection mode I can't
help but think that a camera like the a
55 V is what people are really looking
for when they gravitate towards mega
zooms to me that's where it fits in the
photographic hierarchy most snap
shooters looking to step up want
something faster and with better overall
photo quality than their current camera
but usually want it for a lot less than
the a 55 V costs if it's brother to the
8:33 delivers comparable image quality
so big if and if you don't want the GPS
then that's definitely a better deal
albeit still on the expensive side
however if you're willing to spend the
bucks or wait until the price inevitably
drops by at least $100 off list the a 55
V should deliver on the performance and
photo quality many upgraders are looking
for I'm Laurie grinning and this is the
sony alpha SLT a 55 v